OSSM-8934: Conceptual topic for cluster-wide migration (#88982)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-control-plane-configuration-migration-requirements.adoc

Author: Hi @lahinson!  We are in the middle of a big push to create 3.0 doc. Many of the sections to which we will link are in flight and do not exist yet. We have a separate story to go back and add xrefs.

// Module included in the following assemblies:

// * service-mesh-docs-main/migrating/cluster-wide/ossm-migrating-cluster-wide-assembly.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="ossm-about-cluster-wide-migration_{context}"]
= Control plane configuration migration requirements

> During the migration process, two cluster-wide control planes run in the same cluster while the data plane namespaces are gradually migrated to the {SMProductName} 3.0 installation. One control plane is associated with the {SMProductName} {SMv2Version} installation and the other is associated with the {SMProduct} 3.0 installation. You must carefully plan out the migration steps to avoid possible conflicts between the two control planes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the migration process, two cluster-wide control planes run in the same cluster while the data plane namespaces are gradually migrated to the {SMProductName} 3.0 installation. One control plane is associated with the {SMProductName} {SMv2Version} installation and the other is associated with the {SMProduct} 3.0 installation. You must carefully plan the migration steps to avoid possible conflicts between the two control planes.
```
- Just a nit here. "Plan out" can be simplified to "plan".

Author: done

[id="ossm-cluster-wide-migration-root-certificate_{context}"]
== Root certificate

> During the migration, both control planes must share a root certificate. This can be achieved by installing the 3.0 control plane into the same namespace as 2.6 control plane. The migration procedures show how to verify that the root certificate is shared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the migration, both control planes must share a root certificate. To share a root certificate between both control planes, you install the 3.0 control plane into the same namespace as 2.6 control plane. The migration procedures show how to verify that the root certificate is shared.
```
- Revised to avoid a potentially ambiguous "This", per IBM Style: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-pronouns#ambiguous-pronoun-references

Author: done

[id="ossm-cluster-wide-migration-discovery-selectors_{context}"]
== Discovery selectors and namespace access

> Both control planes must have access to all namespaces in the mesh. During the migration, some proxies are controlled by the 3.0 control plane while other proxies remain controlled by the 2.6 control plane. To ensure that mesh communication works during the migration, both control planes must be aware of the same set of services. Service discovery is provided by `istiod` component, which runs in the control plane namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both control planes must have access to all namespaces in the mesh. During the migration, some proxies are controlled by the 3.0 control plane while other proxies remain controlled by the 2.6 control plane. To ensure that mesh communication works during the migration, both control planes must detect the same set of services. Service discovery is provided by `istiod` component, which runs in the control plane namespace.
```
Avoid anthropomorphic language: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-anthropomorphism

> In the {SMProduct} 3.0 installation, you can control how {istio} discovers services by using discovery selectors. When using discovery selectors, ensure that the `discoverySelectors` expression that is defined in the {SMProduct} 3.0 {istio} resource match the namespaces that comprise the {SMProduct} 2.6 mesh. You might have to add additional labels to the {SMProduct} 2.6 application namespaces to ensure that they are captured in the {SMProduct} 3.0 installation. For more information, see "Scoping the service mesh with DiscoverySelectors".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the {SMProduct} 3.0 installation, you can control how {istio} discovers services by using discovery selectors. When you use discovery selectors, ensure that the `discoverySelectors` expression that is defined in the {SMProduct} 3.0 {istio} resource match the namespaces that comprise the {SMProduct} 2.6 mesh. You might have to add additional labels to the {SMProduct} 2.6 application namespaces to ensure that they are captured in the {SMProduct} 3.0 installation. For more information, see "Scoping the service mesh with DiscoverySelectors".
```

Author: done

[NOTE]
====

> In {SMProduct} 2.6 installations, the `maistra.io/member-of` label is automatically created. This label cannot be used because it is automatically removed during the migration process.

Reviewer: Does the user need to do anything here since the label cannot be used?

====

[id="ossm-cluster-wide-migration-network-policies_{context}"]
== Network policies

By default, {SMProduct} 2.6 manages network policies that block traffic to the 3.0 control plane. 

> For both control planes, during the migration ensure that network policies do not block traffic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For both control planes, during the migration ensure that network policies do not block traffic between the following entities:
```
This might be subjective, but I stumbled a little on the original wording of this list. I wonder if it might be a clearer if the "between" phrasing is moved into the lead-in phrasing. This is just a suggestion.

Author: done

> * Between the control plane and the data plane namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The control plane and the data plane namespaces
```

Author: done

> * Between the data plane namespaces and the control plane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The data plane namespaces and the control plane
```

Author: done

> * Between the data plane namespaces themselves

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The data plane namespaces themselves
```

Author: done

> In the premigration checklist, you are instructed to disable network policies. However, you can manually re-create them. Manually created network policies must allow traffic for both control planes. When a data plane namespace is migrated to 3.0, the `maistra.io/member-of` label is automatically removed. Do not use this label in network policies. For more information, see "Migration of Network Policies".

Author: done

[NOTE]
====

> Incorrectly configured network policies can disrupt mesh traffic. When performing the migration, exercise caution when creating network policies to prevent traffic disruption. For more information, see "Network Policy migration".

Author: done
